

Sarah: 
Is this a response to all the coverage about yuanjiacuoan. - coverage in early 2000s, open media environment, not for PD but other publications. Might that have affected coverage in that early period? 

Sue: 
yuanjiacuoan stuff happening at same time as LWOP; cultural self-confidence and getting a good story out there; how will we detach that mix of rhetoric. How will we detach that rhetoric about wrongful convictions and how that might be part of a strategy about not necessarily suppress discourse but to play it low-key so there aren't mixed messages with wrongful conviction and harsh justice. 

**

Simon(?) Abel(?)
discourse declined because execution method is less public and mobile execution vans are being used and lethal injection. 

Sue
whatever is in PD is a policy push. it's not a reaction to what's going on in terms of the way people are being executed. That was decades ago; we'd expect that decades ago.  we don't know how people are being executed very well. what we know is that media has reported move toward lethal injection. That data itself may be somewhat suspect. From discourse analysis perspective, why did lethal injection become such a prominent story? Matt done work on execution vans and methods of execution. He has articles on this that are elucidating. We don't know; but we see how coverage shapes story rather than action on ground. 

**

Delia from Uni Melbourne
congrats on fantastic paper and research; like the approach of looking at discourse BEFORE policy, which is how I always understand chinese policy. look at evolving political thinking through the discourse. Question comes with a comment: I've been working on rel between politics and justice through discourse, working with SUe on XJP rule of law thought -- also sarah reminded us during CR discourse on DP was not discussed. So I wonder whether we can think about this discourse of DP and discussion of it through the ideology of XJP right now, and through how moral supremacy and political legitimacy is manifested through justice. Before Xi moral sup and political leg - which are related to justice - were about how china is getting closer to the west in terms of justice, about DP as well. whether china is now killing less. That 'killing less' is symbolic of better governance. But now governance is justified in a completely different way which is shifting away from what we knew before XJP era. Your research important because we don't have an answer. only by digging up the langauge can we know the train of thought and what future holds. My question is: through qual analysis can you see shift in rationalisation of DP - why we kill and why we don't? There may be shift and changes in rationalisation in execution and that might be something crucial and provide clues we can find. 

Tobias
great Q and coment; we should have talked to you sooner, would have landed on sharper hypotheses, changing statecraft on Xi that's part of story. We need to do more deep thinking on that. Need to think how to approach change in language; we did prelim work on changing language from Hu Wen to Xi era; was messy so didn't use. We did see there were shifts; a lot more talk, interestingly, in Hu era about law, and a lot less in the Xi era. 

Sue
I haven't seen shift in ratinoalisation of it; there isn't a shift. What we can say is that there are some major cases that the party state puts out there that make me think, is this a move toward greater severity; the problem with analysing this is: you never quite know whether this is one off or whether it's a trend. You have to look at trends if you're going to make judgement of rationalisation of policy. When looking at severity in terms of murder and common crimes; we're still pondering that. 

Matt
blah
